# Lemonade - A New Way to Insure
## Overview 
Lemonade Insurance Company operates as a insurance company offering homeowners and renters insurance using artificial intelligence and behavioral economics. The company uses chatbots and machine learning to provide instant insurance with zero paper work. The company was founded in 2015 and is based in New York city.
### Key Personnel 
* Daniel Schreiber is Co-Founder. Before starting Lemonade, Schreiber worked at Powermat where he  oversaw its transformation into an industry standard and a default feature in the world's foremost smartphones (Samsung Galaxy), venues (Starbucks) and cars (GM). Prior to Powermat, he served as SVP Corporate Marketing at Sandisk, with global responsibility for the company’s social media, press relations, 50 web and ecommerce sites and major rebranding.

* Shai Wininger is a veteran tech entrepreneur and inventor; Lemonade is Wininger’s seventh startup. Wininger is the Co-Founder and "Chief Lemonade Maker" at Lemonade and is currently a Board Member at Fiverr which he co-founded in 2009. Wininger also co-founded Mobideo Aerospace (2005), Handsmart Software (2003), DailyDo (2000), Trimus Inc. (2000), and Ananas Group (1991).

* Duke University professor, author and economist, Dan Ariely is Chief Behavioral Officer at Lemonade with much of his research on behavioral economics integrated into the DNA of the company, in pursuit of transforming the adversarial relationship between client and company. Ariely is tasked, in part, with helping design systems and processes that ensure that the interests of the insurer and the insured are aligned.
### Funding 
* In December 2015, Lemonade announced that it secured $13 million in seed funding from Sequoia Capital and Aleph. 
* In August 2016, Lemonade Inc. raised $13 million in funding from XL Innovate (part of XL Group), followed by a $34 million Series B funding round in December of the same year. The Series B round was led by General Catalyst with participation from Thrive Capital, Tusk Ventures, and GV (formerly Google Ventures), the VC arm of Google’s parent company Alphabet Inc.

* In April 2017, the company announced additional investors: Allianz SE and Ashton Kutcher’s Sound Ventures. In December 2017, Softbank invested an additional $120 million in Lemonade in a Series C round, increasing the total money raised by the company to around $180 million. 
* In April 2019, the company announced a $300 million Series D financing led by Softbank along with partcipation from Allianz, General Catalyst, GV, OurCrow and Thrive capital. 
### Business model 
* __Service__: Lemonade uses an AI-powered bot to digitize the insurance-buying experience for renters and home owners. Users simply download the app and answer a few questions before getting a quote, which starts at $5/month but can surely go up based on a number of factors, including how much personal property one owns.

* __Transparency__: The company has also differentiated itself from traditional insurance providers by integrating a giveback system directly into the product. Lemonade takes a fixed slice of users’ monthly payment as revenue, and sets the rest aside for claims. Unclaimed premiums go to the user’s charity of choice.
* __Technology__: Lemonade uses artificial intelligence in the form of chatbots and machine learning to provide insurance policies and handle claims, replacing brokers and paperwork traditionally associated with the process. When a customer applies for insurance, the company’s software pulls data and cross-references information about a particular home or neighborhood from a variety of sources. Policyholders file claims through Lemonade’s app with the company’s chatbot ‘A.I. Jim’ who reviews the claim, cross-checks it with the policy, runs 18-fraud algorithms, and determines whether or not to approve the claim.
* __Behavioral Finance__: Lemonade uses behavioral economics research to displace fraud and conflict while aligning interests to remove motivation for not paying claims and keeping the inclination to defraud an insurer in check. Integration of these principles are found in Lemonade’s policy purchase and claims processes, with users signing their name on a digital pledge of honesty at the start of the claims process - rather than the end - and speaking into a camera to file a claim rather than using forms. The company is also applying principles of behavioral science to itself, publishing articles on data surrounding customer growth, and bank account balances, among other topics.
* __Giving Back__: Lemonade is registered as a public benefit corporation and has a stated mission of "transforming insurance from a necessary evil into a social good." This includes the Giveback, the charity component of the business model which is also an attempt to mitigate fraudulent insurance claims. Upon signing up for Lemonade, users select a nonprofit or charity that will receive payouts on an annual basis from the unclaimed premiums (also known as underwriting profit) of their respective cohort.
## Industry Overview 
The company operates within the insurance industry, which has lagged behind other sectors in the shift into digital technologies, making the sector variable to disruption. However, in the past few years, the industry has experineced rapid development, particually with the following trends: 
* _Mobility_: Insurance companies are adopting mobile technologies, particularly tools such as the iPad for brokers and underwriters for anytime, anywhere access to data. Adoption of this technology will also rise in the commercial lines space.
* _Analytics_: Leveraging analytics for micro segmentation of customers is helping insurers target the most profitable customers and brokers. This is in turn increasing their return on investment and helping to retain customers and aid in cross sell and up sell initiatives.
* _Social Media_: Social platforms are playing an increasingly important role in influencing purchase decisions. Customers, particularly the youth, constantly communicate through social media. Insurance companies need to create the technology and service infrastructure to listen to relevant ‘narrative bits’ by establishing effective ‘listening posts’. Social media and gaming present a great opportunity to bring a ‘fun’ element to the sales process. 
* _Collaboration_: Increased collaboration between underwriters, customers, and brokers is possible through the effective use of collaborative technology. These technologies are helping to personalise the conversation between the underwriter and broker and cement long-term relationships.
* _Product Configurators_: These are helping insurers create the building blocks for effective multi-channel infrastructure. Product configurators help insurers launch products quickly into the market, bundle product offerings, and customise offerings quickly based on changing market demand or competitive pressures.

The digital transformation that the insurance industry is going through will ultimately give customers the opportunity to have tailored insurance policies that meet their growing expectations. Equally, it will allow insurers to have a stronger relationship with customers as interactions will no-longer be limited to an annual basis, with data and new tools giving both parties regular touch points throughout the year.
## Conclusion 
While Lemonade’s growth has been steep, so too has its learning curve. At the end of 2017, its loss ratio—the amount it pays in claims divided by the premiums it collects—was an unsustainable 166%, compared to 65% to 70% for large insurers. Part of the problem was that Lemonade had too little customer experience on which to train its algorithms, which it uses for approving applicants, pricing risk and determining whether a claim should be paid without humans getting involved (30% are). Indeed, by the first quarter of 2019, its loss ratio had dropped to a healthier 86%. 

So far, Lemonade is only a bit player, with a 0.1% share of the homeowners and renters insurance markets combined, compared with 19% for State Farm and 10% for Allstate, according to data from 17 states collected by the Insurance Information Institute. But the big guys have taken note. In October 2018, State Farm released a star-studded ad spoofing budget insurance bots and suggesting they couldn’t compete with human agents. Nevertheless, it is inevitable that the insurance industry will experience significant disruption by the digital transaformation. 

## Source 
1. S&P Capital IQ 
1. [The Company History of Lemonade Insurance](https://gazetteday.com/2019/04/company-history-lemonade-insurance/), _Gazette_, April 3, 2019. 
1. [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lemonade_(insurance)).
1. [Lemonade Picks Up $300 Million Series D Led by SoftBank Group](https://techcrunch.com/2019/04/11/lemonade-picks-up-300-million-series-d-led-by-softbank-group/), _TechCrunch_, April 11, 2019. 
1. [The Changing Face of the Insurance Industry: Digital Transformation](https://www.information-age.com/changing-face-insurance-industry-digital-transformation-123469299/), _InfomrationAge_, October 26, 2017.
1. [First, Fire All The Brokers: How Lemonade, A Millennial-Loved Fintech Unicorn, Is Disrupting The Insurance Business](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffkauflin/2019/05/02/lemonade-fintech-insurance-unicorn/#44f572856cde), _Forbes_, May 2, 2019. 
1. [Change In The Insurance Industry Is Constant, But That Doesn't Make It Easy](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesfinancecouncil/2018/07/23/change-in-the-insurance-industry-is-constant-but-that-doesnt-make-it-easy/#5dd256f66bbf), _Forbes_, July 23, 2018. 
1. [How fintech has sparked a revolution in insurance](file:///C:/Users/ruyijiao/Downloads/gx-fsi-cataylst-for-change.pdf), _Deloitte_.
1. [The FinTech Revolution in Insurance](https://readwrite.com/2019/05/03/the-fintech-revolution-in-insurance/),  _Readwrite_, May 3, 2019.